# Getting started
Let's go over some of the things I know for a fact will be an issue:
- I'm a total beginner in desktop, systems, low level or anything outside the world of web development.
- I have been trying to get into a more terminal-centered development cycle, but it hasn't been super easy.
- That means I'm trying to horseshoe NeoVim (LazyVim) into my workflow. It's my main driver for most of the text editing, but I still struggle a lot with configs, mainly when it comes to running and debugging code.
- I'll be using VS Code as my main debugging tool. It's just easier.

This first day was a lot of messing around with configure files and shit.

## Creating the project and setting up the build file
Hey, this part is simple enough.
First hassle, though, how do I get the folder structure to show up here? Easy enough, do a `tree handmade_hero >> my_file.md`.

handmade_hero
├── build
├── handmade
│   └── code
├── LICENSE
└── README.md

Creating the build file itself is also pretty straight forward, so check the tutorial
The main issue was getting VS Code and NeoVim to run smoothly.

# Setting up VS Code
I started by running the main file, `sdl_handmade.cpp` from the UI's Debug menu.
This creates a `.vscode/tasks.json` file. Let's look at the contents of that file.

```json
{
    "tasks": [
        {
            "type": "cppbuild",
            "label": "C/C++: g++ build active file",
            "command": "/usr/bin/g++",
            "args": [
                "-fdiagnostics-color=always",
                "-g",
                "${file}",
                "-o",
                "${fileDirname}/${fileBasenameNoExtension}"
            ],
            "options": {
                "cwd": "${fileDirname}"
            },
            "problemMatcher": [
                "$gcc"
            ],
            "group": {
                "kind": "build",
                "isDefault": true
            },
            "detail": "Task generated by Debugger."
        }
    ],
    "version": "2.0.0"
}
```

Now, I could probably change this task so I wouldn't need the `build.sh` script, but I want to keep it as close as possible to the original, so I needed to figure something else out.

In the `Run and Debug (ctrl + shift + d)` panel, we have the option of [reading their documentation on C/C++ debugging](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/launch-json-reference). I used the GUI to `create a launch.json file`, and it gave me a bunch of suggestions as to what sort of configuration I wanted. I chose the `C/C++ (gdb) Launch`.

The first, obvious, thing that I needed to change was the `"program"` attribute:
```json
"program": "${workspaceFolder}/build/handmadehero"
```

I still needed something that would recompile the program every time I ran it, though, otherwise I'd always be looking at an old version of the app.

There's this `preLaunchTask` attribute that was referencing the `"C/C++: g++ build active file"` label property from the task generated the debugger. So, basically, the default launch script was compiling the file through `g++`, which was not what I wanted.
I changed it quickly for `clang`, just to see what happened, and I could see on the console that it was using the new compiler.
So now I just needed to create a task that would call my script before running the program.

Long story short, I came up with this:
```json
{
    "type": "cppbuild",
    "label": "HH Custom Build",
    "command": "/usr/bin/bash",
    "args": [
        "build.sh"
    ],
    "options": {
        "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}/handmade/code"
    },
    "group": {
        "kind": "build",
        "isDefault": true
    }
}
```

Adding prints and `ls -la` inside the `build.sh` kinda helped getting everything working properly, so that's a thought.

The last (small) issue I faced was in getting VS Code's IntelliSense to recognize the SDL2 headers.
The tutorial walks us through passing this info to the compiler, not to the LSP, but my previous experiences fighting with `clangd` configs had prepared me for this: I knew I had to add SDL2's location to IntelliSense's include path.

Doing this in VS Code is pretty straightforward. Hover the error, press `Quick fix`, choose `Edit includePath` or something and add `/usr/include/SDL2` to it.

Voilá. Kinda working.

# Setup NeoVim
A couple of differences regarding my NeoVim config.

- I am using `clangd` as my LSP.
- I never got a proper debug session to work in NeoVim.

The first one was easy enough. Create a `.clangd` file at the root of the project and add SDL2's path to it's `CompileFlags`:
```.clangd
CompileFlags:
  Add:
    - -I/usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu
    - -I/usr/include/SDL2
```

But what about the debug session?

Lucky enough, NeoVim (or LazyVim, who knows) recognizes VS Code's launch configs, but they are not totally compatible.
Running the DAP and choosing the same launch config throws this error:
```
DAP Config references missing adapter `cppdbg`. Available are: codelldb
```

So I need a new entry in my `launch.json` that'll use a different DAP adapter, and it should be good to go:
```json
{
    "name": "Nvim launch",
    "request": "launch",
    "type": "codelldb",
    "program": "./build/handmadehero",
    "preLaunchTask": "HH Custom Build"
}
```

I'ma leave this for now.
Obviously, there's some improvements that I can make to the launch configs, but this is good enough. 
